Week -1 Introduction to JAVA programing and JVM basics, Install IDE (IJ)

I- Definition

JAVA: Java is a programming language who helps to create modular programs and reusable code.

II- JAVA terminology and utilities

   A-Java Virtual Machine (JVM)

          1- Definition

Is a machine that resides in the computer, his language is byte code.
 
          2-Utilities

- execution of the bytecode produced by compiler
-JVM makes Java platform independent (byte code generated
On Windows can be run on Mac OS and vice versa)

   B- Javac

1- definition
Javac is a primary Java compiler included in Java development kit. 

2-Utilitie
Javac compile program writing by programmer.
 
C -Java Development Kit (JDK): definition and utilitie

JDK is complete Java development kit that includes
 JRE, compiler and various tools.

   D- Java Runtime Environment (JRE)

JRE is include in JDK . With JRE installed to your computer you can run a Java program but you can't compile.

   E - bytecode
 
      1-definition
Bytecode is a result of writing program compile by javac compiler .
      
          2-Utilities
Bytecode an output coming from javac , will be the an input for JVM.  It is the language understood by JVM.

  III- PHASES OF PROGRAM EXECUTION

      A- Writing of program

Writing of program is done by programmer it represents input for Javac . All source code is first written in plain text files (.java file) .
     B- Compilation

It is done by javac compiler, it take Java program as input and generated output call Java bytecode (.class file).

       C-Execution or Program Run Phase

This phase is done by JVM. It executes the bytecode produced by compiler.

Step1 : copy the program writing on Notepad or TextEdit and paste it in the text editor.

Step 2 : Save the file as the same name as the public class name .

Step 3 : Compile the program. Open commande prompt (cmd) for Windows or Terminal for Mac OS, type your command  and then hit enter .

Step 4 : Run the program . After compilation ,java gets translate into the .class (byte code) . Type your  command and hit enter . The program will be run. ( never append the .java extension to the file name while running the program.) 
